-: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are going to understand about
three types of CLIs required for
our AWS EKS clusters.
In simple terms,
to manage our application workloads on EKS cluster,
we need to
install three types of
CLIs. Command-line Interfaces.
So,
the three types are AWS CLA,
Cube CTL, and then, EKS CTL.
So AWS CLA, we can control multiple AWS services
from the command line
and automate them through the scripts.
So, this is a generic definition about AWS CLA.
But why we need it
for EKS cluster?
So, why we need it is
like once we configure the AWS CLA
and then provide the
security credentials on our local desktop
with AWS CLA using Cube CTL
and using EKS CTL,
we will be able to manage our cluster
and our cluster objects,
and also our applications on Kubernetes clusters.
So, all those things
are required for that purpose.
We need to primarily install the
AWS CLA as the underlying base.
Next is the Cube CTL.
So Cube CTL,
we can control Kubernetes clusters and objects using
Cube CTL.
So, most of the time in our entire course
we are going to
do everything with Cube CTL only.
So, we can see step-by-step in our upcoming lectures.
So EKS CTL.
So, this is a very, very important
and powerful tool for managing the
Elastic Kubernetes Service Clusters.
So, we even have the
AWS Management Console
wherein we will be able to create the cluster
and then create the node groups.
You'll understand about these objects
in our upcoming lectures.
"What is this cluster?"
And then "What is control play?"
and all these things.
But for now, need to understand here is like
EKS CTL is the
better tool
than the AWS Management Console as of today.
So if using EKS CTL, we'll be able to
create and then delete the clusters on AWS EKS.
In addition to that, we'll be able to create autoscale
and then delete the node groups.
And we'll also be able to create the
Fargate profiles using EKS CTL.
In short,
it is a very, very, very
powerful tool for managing
EKS clusters on AWS.
So, let's go to our GitHub repo and then
look into
our steps, what we are going to perf.
And in zero one EKS create clusters using
EKS CTL.
So as a first step, we are going to do the
install CLIs now.
So, in our next lecture we'll focus on installing the
AWS CLI.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye, bye.
Thank you.